#summary How to translate the application

= Introduction =

Here is a quick guide to translating OSMTracker.

Thanks to various contributors, OSMTracker has been translated in several  languages. The application will rely on the localization setting of your Android device to choose which language to use.

Translating the application means getting the original English XML files and replace each word by its translation in your favorite language.

Please:
  * Ensure to get the latest files from the source repository before adding/updating a translation.
  * Ensure that you're editing your files in UTF-8 encoding.
  * Use tabulations characters, instead of space for indenting.


= Existing translations =

The following translations already exists. Please reopen the corresponding issues to update them:

|| *Language* || *Locale code ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes ISO 639-1])* || *Related issue* ||
|| Italian || it || issue #20 ||
|| Danish || da || issue #26 ||
|| Finnish || fi || issue #88 ||
|| French || fr || issue #47 ||
|| German || de || issue #24 ||
|| Hebrew || iw || [https://github.com/nguillaumin/osmtracker-android/pull/2 pull request #2] ||
|| Japanese || ja || issue #174 ||
|| Norwegian || no || Copied from nb ||
|| Norwegian Nynorsk || nn || issue #125 ||
|| Norwegian Bokmål || nb || [https://github.com/nguillaumin/osmtracker-android/pull/4 pull request #4] ||
|| Polish || pl || [https://github.com/nguillaumin/osmtracker-android/pull/8 pull request #8] ||
|| Portuguese || pt || issue #109 ||
|| Russian || ru || issue #44 ||
|| Slovak || sk || issue #103 ||
|| Spanish || es || issue #31 ||
|| Swedish || sv || issue #34 ||
|| Thai    || th || issue #81 ||

= Which files must be translated ? =

The files to translate are:
  * https://github.com/nguillaumin/osmtracker-android/blob/master/res/xml/default_buttons_layout.xml
  * https://github.com/nguillaumin/osmtracker-android/blob/master/res/values/strings-preferences.xml
  * https://github.com/nguillaumin/osmtracker-android/blob/master/res/values/waypoints.xml
  * https://github.com/nguillaumin/osmtracker-android/blob/master/res/values/strings.xml
  * https://github.com/nguillaumin/osmtracker-android/blob/master/res/values/accessibility.xml
  * And optionally: https://github.com/nguillaumin/osmtracker-android/blob/master/res/values/renderers.xml

Please use the *raw* link (top right) to get the files, instead of copy/paste. It will preserve special chars and tabulations.

*Note*: You can use {{{default_buttons_layout.xml}}} as a [CustomButtonsLayouts custom layout] for testing purposes, but you won't be able to see icons. This file is embedded in the application so it uses a special syntax to reference icon as internal resources, instead of external image files.

As an extra, you can also translate market descriptions for the app:
  * _Inspired by OSMTracker/Windows Mobile, allows you to track your journeys, mark waypoints (Tags, voicerec, photo) and export them in GPX format for later use with !OpenStreetMap tools like JOSM._ (Max 325 char., less if possible to allow me to add the changelog for last version)
  * _Track your journey with tags, voice & photo for importing into !OpenStreetMap !_ (Max 80 char.)

= How to submit translated files ? =

Open an issue, naming it "_(your language)_ translation" and attach your translated files. Alternatively, you can create a pull request on GitHub.
For market text translations, simply copy/paste the translation into the issue, or put them in a text file and attach it along with the XML files.

= How to update an existing translation ? =

Re-open the existing issue, and post your new files, or create a pull request on GitHub.